GSoC 2023 blog post (#5690)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2022/11/2022-11-16-gsoc-2023.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "Google Summer of Code 2023 Call for Project Ideas and Mentors"
tags:
- gsoc
- gsoc2022
- community
- events
- developer
authors:
- alyssat
- jmMeessen
- krisstern
- gounthar
description: >
  This blogpost calls for projects and mentors for the 2023 edition of Google Summer of Code.
links:
  discourse: https://community.jenkins.io/t/jenkins-in-gsoc-2023-mentors-org-admins-project-ideas-wanted/4387
---

> link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com[Google Summer of Code] (GSoC) is a global, online mentoring program focused on introducing new contributors to open source software development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com[Google Summer of Code] (GSoC) is a global, online mentoring program focused on introducing students and new contributors to open source software development.
```

Author: :+1:

> GSoC contributors work on a 12+ week programming project with the guidance of mentors from their open source organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GSoC contributors work on a 10-22 weeks programming project with the guidance of mentors from their open source organization.
```

During GSoC, participating contributors are paired with mentors from open source organizations, gaining exposure to real-world software development techniques.
GSoC contributors will learn from experienced open source developers while writing code for real-world projects!
A small stipend is provided as an incentive.

See GSoC contributor eligibility link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/get-started[here].

We are looking for project ideas and mentors to participate in GSoC 2023.

> GSoC project ideas are coding projects that potential GSoC contributors can accomplish in about 12+ weeks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GSoC project ideas are coding projects that potential GSoC contributors can accomplish in about 10-22 weeks.
```

It is not necessary to submit a Google Doc, but it will still work if you want to do that.
See the link:/projects/gsoc/proposing-project-ideas/[instructions] on submitting ideas which include an .adoc template and some examples.

=== What does mentoring involve?
Potential mentors are invited to read the link:/projects/gsoc/mentors[information for mentors].
Note that being a GSoC mentor does not require expert knowledge of Jenkins.
Mentors do not work alone. We make sure that every project has at least two mentors.
GSoC org admins will help to find technical advisers, so you can study together with your GSoC contributor.
Mentoring takes about 5 to 8 hours of work per week (more at the start, less at the end).
Mentors provide guidance, coaching, and sometimes a bit of cheerleading.
They review GSoC contributor proposals, pull-requests and contributor presentations at the evaluation phase.
They fill in the Google provided final evaluations at the end of the coding period.

=== What do you get in exchange?
Mentor interaction is a vital part of GSoC.

> In return for mentoring, a GSoC contributor works on your project full time for 12+ weeks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In return for mentoring, a GSoC contributor works on your project full time for 10-22 weeks.
```

Think about the projects that you’ve always wanted to do but never had the time…
Mentoring is also an opportunity to improve your management and people skills, while giving back to the community.

> GSoC is a fantastic program and the Jenkins project is happy to participate in GSoC again in 2022!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GSoC is a fantastic program and the Jenkins project is looking forward to participating in GSoC again in 2023!
```
